It’s not easy raising kids in the truth,
and I had ten.
I learned the truth when I was 19.
Some Witnesses came to preach in our town,
and my father offered them a place to stay.
He spoke with them all through the night
and then announced excitedly
that he had found the truth.
Eventually, I was baptized in the 1950’s.
My husband was favorable toward the truth
but got involved
in political affairs in the community,
and from there
he began his political career.
When I read 1 Peter 3:1, 2,
I understood that I needed
to be in subjection to my husband,
with the hope that he could be won over
“without a word” by means of my conduct.
When my children were young,
I made a weekly Bible study program
for each of them,
and as they grew up,
the older kids helped me
with their younger siblings.
I remember Mom always made
an effort to teach me how to preach.
I would write presentations
for the ministry on pieces of paper,
and the kids would practice while they
did their chores around the house.
We set aside time
one day a week for our family study.
It could be anything
—a sack of potatoes,
a sack of flour, or a house plant.
She would tell me:
“Imagine that this is a person
you meet in field service.
What would you say to them?”
When I finished, she would say to me,
“The way you did it just now,
do it like that when you
go out in the ministry.”
My mom was very creative.
She would assign us to play
the part of different Bible characters.
My mom taught us to appreciate the truth
through her example.
I served as a regular pioneer for many years,
and I encouraged my kids
to reach out for spiritual goals.
My daughter left home at the age of 18
to serve as a special pioneer.
Later, my oldest son did the same.
These two proved to be excellent examples
for their younger brothers.
Raising my son Noé was a challenge.
He was the youngest,
and at a very young age,
he was diagnosed with epilepsy.
Despite his limitations,
he was able to serve
as a ministerial servant
and regular pioneer.
He fought his illness for more than 40 years,
before passing away recently.
Losing my husband in death
dealt me another blow.
Now my health and my memory are fading.
I can’t do as much
in the ministry as before.
But even so, thanks to the help
of the brothers in the congregation,
I’m not giving up.
Even though my husband was not a Witness,
I respected him as the head of the family.
I will never forget the moment
when my husband asked me
to study the Bible with him.
I remember
that my eldest son gave the talk,
and his father was
among the candidates for baptism.
Forty-two years
after I received the Kingdom message,
my husband was baptized.
Another great blessing
was seeing my children
grow in the truth
and use their youth to serve Jehovah.
Some have served as special pioneers,
circuit overseers, or in Bethel.
If it wasn’t for her help
and the support of my siblings,
perhaps we wouldn’t be part
of the organization today.
But thanks to her,
we started out on the best course in life.
Words cannot express
how grateful I am to her.
I now find great joy
in seeing my grandchildren
and great-grandchildren
follow their parents’ example.
Thinking about all I have experienced
in over 60 years of service to Jehovah
—raising my ten children in the truth,
my husband becoming a servant of Jehovah,
and seeing 30 members
of my family in full-time service—
I can do nothing
but thank Jehovah
for his blessings.
It’s been worth all the effort.